Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
Previously on House of David...
With five unified armies.
we shall ride against Saul.
There is not a leader among us to command
the five armies. Certainly not you.
I just heard I'm being sent
on a mission with Joab.
Must be important.
And what are we to do?
Remove the threat
along with his bloodline.
There can be no survivors.
Go! Get away. Son. Run!
-I fear we are being selfish.
-Mychal. please.
I've made my decision.
You will marry Mirab
and I will live with it.
That is a dozen men
we've lost. David.
Every dead Philistine had one.
Charcoal.
You promised me iron swords
as refined as Goliath's.
I need time. my king. and more materials.
As a reward for your bravery.
I give you command of a thousand men.
Do you really think
David is capable of commanding an army?
It is wise to use David
to unite our people.
They love him.
The righteous will flourish
like a palm tree.
They will grow like a cedar of Lebanon.
Planted in the house of the Lord...
they will flourish
in the courts of our God.
By this I know
that you are pleased with me...
...because my enemies
do not triumph over me.
Do not let them triumph over me.
Ah. the great warrior.
-Jonathan.
-And still writing your poetry.
This year has gone by too quickly.
Look at you.
All this time.
you still can't grow a beard. huh?
-I've been trying.
-Uh-huh.
How have you been?
Tired.
from hearing of your many victories.
Perhaps I could lose a few
to ease your burden.
-How is she?
-Uh. Mychal?
Distracting herself as much as she can.
She teaches children now.
-Yes?
-Hmm.
And the rest?
A house divided can be.
well. an unpleasant place.
And what of Sara?
I still think about her.
even after all this time.
But her heart is bound
by the loss of her brother.
She cannot release it.
Hmm.
The pain behind us.
it often blocks the joy ahead.
Hmm. So. what can be done?
We look forward.
Ambush.
Shields in the center now.
Shields! Shields! Shields!
-Where did they come from?
-All sides.
Archers on me.
They'll hit your brother.
Give the order when I'm covered.
Stay down!
Arrows!
Move! Get off me.
Protect David!
Take their swords!
Jonathan!
Fall back! Retreat!
Retreat! Fall back! Retreat!
Who was that?
Oaz. raise your sword.
No.
It's light as a feather.
yet still so strong.
Tha-That was my sword.
Are you going to replace it?
Search the dead yourself.
Eliab.
Do not defy my orders again.
Then do not tell me what to do.
Look at this.
More charcoal.
Yes. More charcoal that will not
make it back to a Philistine forge.
These are demon swords.
David. do you think
these swords are cursed?
-No. I do not.
-Good.
Every time we face these weapons.
they are stronger and lighter.
All of Philistia are armed with these.
God is able.
Plus. I have held one
far more perfect than this.
It's difficult.
I know. but it-it's important.
Writing...
Writing is how we remember
what came before us.
Like the great stories
of Jacob. Moses and Noah.
Who knows. maybe one day.
you will write down such a story. Hmm?
I would write the story
of David the Giant Killer.
That would be a very good one.
Wonder how it ends.
Saul has killed his thousands.
David his tens of thousands!
It has been time enough.
When will you forgive me?
It is you who abandoned our bed.
Do you have something to say?
Surely you wouldn't have come all the way
to this side of the palace if you didn't.
It is your name they should be chanting
and your son after you.
They are chanting my name.
I have killed my thousands.
David his tens of thousands.
Yes. David.
David! David!
David...
David.
They would crown that boy
today if they could.
He has driven your daughters apart
and now he eclipses you
in the eyes of your people.
He is a threat.
Why do you refuse to see it?
Enough.
Your suspicion is a poison to me
and everyone in this palace.
My suspicion is a shield
to you and your throne.
The sooner you realize that. the better.
Our hero returns. More victories I'm told.
We. uh... we have much to discuss.
We are badly in need of a wedding planner.
Yes. but another time please.
I would love to take my rest.
Yes. of course. Of course.
It's time to stop fighting over charcoal.
start forging our own swords
to match these.
It must require a great deal of heat
to forge weapons of this quality.
Philistines would never sacrifice so many
lives raiding our coal mines otherwise.
David swears
Goliath's blade is even stronger.
If we are to stand any chance at all.
we need that weapon
and the knowledge behind it.
Do you know what became of it?
Greetings. Lord Commander.
What are you doing
in the City of the Priests?
You're holding something here.
something brought here by your father.
I need to see it.
He instructed I reveal it to no one.
As I instructed him.
I've been trying to cipher
what is etched on it.
Philistian markings?
Mostly. but some are much older.
Egyptian. I believe.
God. swords. Perhaps. "God and swords."
No.
No. "God of Swords."
It's a signature.
Thank you.
Not bad. Getting better.
Good.
As the lion.
-Can I ask you something?
-Mm-hmm.
What does it feel like... to be anointed?
Like Joshua. Samson.
the way my father was.
Is. Your father is anointed.
No. you don't have to explain.
You can speak the truth to me.
What does it feel like?
Powerful. like fire or a rushing wind.
I become more of something.
Everything I feel is amplified.
Passion. joy. even rage.
It frightens me.
I fear I may lose control.
I cannot speak of it to anyone.
except maybe you now.
No one understands. I don't understand.
Sometimes I feel that to be anointed
is to be alone.
You are not alone. David.
I'm sorry the throne won't pass to you
as it should have.
Hello. Princess.
David.
I heard you were teaching children
how to read. as you once taught me.
You know how I love words.
I miss hearing you sing them.
So often I would sit at this very balcony
listening to your morning prayers.
Your sister compares it to a rooster.
Yes. well.
she does like her sleep.
I have a gift for you.
I began writing my own songs.
although sometimes
I feel the words are from. um...
God himself.
Yes.
I wanted you to have this.
"The Lord is my shepherd."
and I shall not be in need.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
he leads me by still waters.
"He restores my soul."
It's beautiful. David.
I thought I would write it
about a shepherd.
It is what I know.
And will you write a love song
for my sister?
No. I only write what is true.
My wounds. they're...
they're still healing.
I do not wish to reopen them.
-Mychal. I...
-It was good to see you. Commander.
I praise Adonai you're safe.
You're avoiding me.
Mirab. the Philistines have no interest
in our marriage. blissful or otherwise.
There are more battles I must fight
-to be worthy of this house.
-Stop. David.
You are delaying. you're making excuses.
You've been gone for many seasons
defending against our enemies.
I've waited long enough.
Look. I understand
you still have feelings for my sister.
I see it.
But Mychal has moved on. She's happier.
She's on her own path.
And you.
you are a bold enough soldier to know
you can't keep marching backwards.
So. the time has come
to honor my father's wishes.
A date must be set.
Do you agree?
I am a servant of the king.
Perfect.
When I was in Endor. there was a...
there was a man there.
He was a master metal forger.
Called himself the God of Swords.
Endor? Abner...
The witches there.
they would perform rituals on his weapons
but the true power
came from his craftsmanship.
I believe he has discovered
an entirely new metal.
One that would decimate
even the finest bronze.
My king. we need to find this man.
I believe I can convince him to teach us
how to forge these weapons.
-My army will convince him.
-No. If our army marches on Endor.
the man will disappear
before we ever breach the city gates.
This is not a job for an army.
but a handful of men.
In that case.
you should not be one of them.
My king. Saul.
No one else knows Endor as I do.
Yes. That is my fear.
It is a lawless. godforsaken place.
With your history there...
I know. It's all in the past.
Abner...
It is all in my past.
What matters now is the future.
and in order to ensure it.
we must find this God of Swords.
Why are you looking at me?
I've noticed lately you seem
to be fighting more than the enemy.
And who else would I be fighting?
You wrestle with God
like Jacob in the old stories.
God?
Yes.
Yes. I would fight him
if I could find him.
Ah. Eliab. He's clearly with David.
Why are we dressed like merchants? Huh?
I think he's turned us into spies.
-And is that a problem?
-Yes. I make a terrible spy.
Greetings.
What is it?
I don't like that man
and I don't understand
why your father trusts him.
Doeg? No. we don't trust him
but he is useful.
Any animal who attacks on your behalf
will one day attack you.
-Mm-hmm.
-I'm just... I'm worried.
Oh. are we doing that now?
What?
Worrying about each other.
It's sweet.
Oh. what is this?
-Dinner.
-No. this.
You look so happy. It's very upsetting.
I hear you have happy news of your own.
Oh. what is this?
David and Mirab have set a wedding date.
-Congratulations.
-Thank you.
The city of Endor.
refuge for killers. renegades.
deserters and criminals.
Be on guard.
Whatever you hear or see. take in stride.
Do not show offense. We need to
draw as little attention as possible.
Forgive me. Commander.
What are we doing here?
We are merchants from Sidon
trying to make a fair profit on our wares.
That's all you need to know
and leave the talking to me.
Abner. I heard you were dead.
Slain by Goliath at the Battle of Elah.
What brings you back here
where no one wants to see you?
I'm looking for a man. a blacksmith.
Name of God of Swords.
This is his maker's mark.
My friend here. he knows every person
and item of value within the city walls.
He'd sell his own daughter
for a silver shekel.
-Twenty-five.
-Seventy-five.
Fifty. and if you argue.
you won't live to bargain again.
I see you haven't changed.
Abner.
Lord Commander of Israel.
Your mother must be so proud.
Never mention my family again.
Now take us to the God of Swords.
and as you do. you'll tell me
everything you know about him.
Follow me.
I remember when I chose
my dress. the fabrics weren't as fancy
but the feelings
were softer than the finest silk.
Are you sure this is what you want?
Of course. Why wouldn't I?
Marriage for power and status
without emotion
can come at significant cost.
You seem to be enduring it with ease.
With ease?
Hmm.
Not with ease.
You know. Mother.
if I have learned anything from you.
it's that love...
it serves no purpose but to make one weak.
That was never
the lesson I intended to teach.
Well. I was never that good at listening.
I'm aware.
I wanted to give you something.
So you'll know that I am always with you.
It's beautiful.
You like it?
I love it.
I respect your decision.
but if this is your choice.
you must be hardened with resolve.
You will never have the luxury of tears.
Never.
And I do love your father.
Still?
Still.
Tell me. my dear...
how are my daughters?
Have they made peace yet?
They're finding their way. my king.
No one can cause pain
like your own family.
Time heals every wound.
Except those that fester.
Put a single shekel on the scales
and watch your fortune change.
Tonight is the night copper turns
to silver and silver turns to gold!
Brother. this is
the greatest day of my life.
You have a shekel?
No. The last time we gambled.
you lost my horse.
-Brother!
-Oaz.
It would be conspicuous if we didn't.
Thank you. brother.
I'll double your money.
-I'm not getting that back. am I?
-Definitely not.
Place your final bets
and mind your distance.
That's him.
Release the serpents.
Yes. Oh. yes.
Come on.
No!
You may be right. Uriah.
I may be weak-minded.
I would have bet on that one too.
No. you wouldn't.
God of Swords. we've traveled
a great distance to find you.
Is that so?
Perhaps you can help us.
We hear you're even more skilled
with metal than snakes.
Are you sure
you can afford this conversation?
We'll pay you double what the Philistines
paid for the sword of the giant.
That was a fine sword.
There is none like it.
Indeed.
Come with me.
Come. You come closer.
Iron. The name itself
means hardness and strength.
Why is it so much stronger than bronze?
It's skill. Higher levels of heat
creates stronger metal.
If you're making hundreds of these.
I assume it requires
a vast amount of fuel.
Charcoal.
The Philistines worship their many gods.
Our people worship one god.
But I worship only this.
This is what decides man's destiny.
I want you
to come with us to Gibeah.
teach us how to make these iron weapons
by the thousands.
I already escaped the Philistines
because I wasn't interested
in being locked in their dungeons.
What makes you think
I want to be locked in yours?
Because I know this blade
is not all you care about.
Your daughter.
I know she's an Edomite slave.
I know her name.
Bathsheba.
She was taken from you
to cover your debts.
I know where you can find her.
Return with us to Gibeah.
teach us how to make these weapons...
and you'll get to see her face again.
No. no. no.
I have it.
Ambush!
Joab. You didn't...
you didn't ride out with Abner.
He ordered me to stay.
Abner and I.
we've had some discord of late.
Hmm.
And I also heard
you were offering reading lessons.
But you already read.
Hmm. good point.
Well. you may say I've wasted a trip.
What is bothering you?
What do you mean?
Nothing.
No. What do you mean?
Forgive me. Princess.
but your hands.
I've noticed you do that
when you're worried.
Do you make a-a habit of watching
every little thing people do?
Hmm. only the interesting ones.
It's... It's David.
I worry whenever he leaves.
You do realize
he's about to marry your sister.
They've set a wedding date. have they not?
I can't help it.
He has my heart.
I fear he always will.
Joab. will you do something for me?
Anything.
Protect him.
I already am.
Kezia.
Doeg. you shouldn't be here.
You mean in the servants' area?
We all serve someone.
We both seek opportunities.
You seem unwell.
Should I summon a guard?
Hmm. No.
I need to know how the king
cured himself of his curse.
And how would I know that?
There are no secrets in this palace
that do not find my ears.
I can't help you.
Can't? Can't or won't?
Need I remind you I am
the one who brought you here?
I saved you. Kezia.
I saved myself.
Doeg. I want nothing more to do with you.
Perhaps I speak to the king
about the whispers I hear.
Perhaps I should speak to him
and watch you lose your head.
I've stepped beyond your control. Doeg.
Now it is you
who owes your life to my whim.
Shame on you.
On your knees. Israelites.
Get off me!
I kneel to God. not to man.
Not to man.
To the priestess of El. mistress of Baal.
sister of Asherah.
You will kneel to the Witch of Endor.
And you said you'd never come home.
Hello. Mother.
Tell me. Abner.
Did you think they would
lose respect for you
or perhaps they would have
come to fear you?
I have so many reasons to kill you
for refusing offerings to our gods.
for sitting beside the king
as he outlawed witchcraft.
or for killing a daughter of Endor
to cover the sins of your house.
Yes. any of these will do.
Ask my son and he'll tell you
why people truly fear me.
I speak with the dead.
They show me many things.
I am not afraid of your cheap tricks.
Oh. Tell me. son of Judah.
Does your conscience still drown
in the blood of the innocent family
you slaughtered?
I hear their cries.
The same ones that haunt you in the night.
Son of Saul.
Crown prince of Israel.
Yet. when I look into your future.
I see nothing at all.
A life cut short.
How does it feel. Prince.
to know the crown meant for your head
will sit on another?
The crown will rest on the one
deserving of it. That is enough for me.
What have you brought here. Abner?
Who are you?
You speak to the dead.
I speak to their creator.
and he sees you through me.
My name is David.
You have great power...
yet you are weakened by a lie.
When you finally live in the truth.
woe to the witch or the king
who tries to stand in your way.
Your power will break those around you
and your house will never know peace.
Let them go. all of them.
I do not want their blood on my hands.
But one more thing. Abner.
One day soon.
the house of Saul will be defeated.
Not from without.
It will crumble from within.
and you will watch helpless
as you draw your last breath.
Very impressive.
An army carrying such weapons
will crush the Hebrews.
We will advance beyond the border villages
and then we will carve up Israel.
Already dividing the spoils
of your victory. Achish?
As the dog returns to his vomit.
so the fool repeats his folly.
All of Philistia still bleeds
after your last promise of victory.
Then it was giants.
Now you require more swords
and you want thousands of them?
All paid for at my expense.
Our shared expense.
Exactly how much time
and silver will this require?
As long and as much is needed.
I will find my own forgers
and fight my own wars.
Perhaps against you.
Thank you for this gift. but I am no fool.
No. You're a great and wise king...
whose time has passed.
Dagnor!
Now. young Prince. would you like to
suffer your father's fate. hmm?
Or join a new generation of kings?
I will... I will join you.
Good.
Then you'll have your father's throne
and. uh. one-third of Israel.
All hail King Hanun.
Do not defy me again.
We are both kings.
I've simply removed an obstacle.
He was a king of Philistia.
And now he is no more.
Come. Achish. You think too much.
Hmm?
Just know if you are lying
about my daughter.
I will kill you. your mother and your men.
and make a thousand Philistine swords
just to spite you all.
You will get everything you were promised.
Men. hear me.
Everything that witch said
is meant to disturb your mind.
to sow distrust and chaos in Israel.
Never breathe a word of it to anyone.
We must have words.
Go on.
When are you going to stop
acting like a fool?
Our brother has been anointed by the seer.
He has proven himself in battle
time and again.
And last night. somehow.
saved all of our lives from that witch.
Our brother is a danger to himself
and to the rest of our family.
No. Eliab. Your issue is not with David.
it's with yourself.
Open your eyes.
So you don't get to be the
hero of our family anymore. too bad.
-You know who made David the hero?
-Hmm?
God did.
It's blasphemy. The mere notion
of her knowing our destiny.
And yet. if she was able
to see the truth about you...
I will admit. I worry about my own future.
Jonathan. none of us
know what truly lies ahead.
But she was right about one thing.
we must live in our truth.
And that means cherishing
the light of each new day.
God grants us no promise of another.
And after all this darkness...
ride towards the light.
If there's love to be found.
I must embrace it while I still can.
Jonathan. what are you doing here?
What are we going to do now?
My king.
David. Was the mission successful?
Have you returned with the God of Swords?
We have.
But first. I must speak to you
of another matter.
Speak.
I cannot...
I will not marry Mirab.
I do not wish to defy you
but I know the truth.
If she truly loved me and I her. then...
then I would obey you.
But I know in my heart
we cannot be together.
And if you wish it not
that I be with Mychal. then so be it.
After all. who am I
that I be son-in-law to the king?
What are you saying. David?
You choose to refuse my command?
I choose to live in the truth.
May the king live forever.
David.
Son of Jesse.
Decisions have consequences.
So do lies.
God guides a man's destiny.
Do what you must.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org